[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Back to our let keyword.
The let keyword, as I was saying,
the let keyword is kind of like var.
It will declare a variable, but
it will attach that variable
implicitly to whatever block it appears in
rather than attaching it to the function.
You recall from our discussion
of the compiler, wherever
it finds the var it's going to attach
it to whatever function scope it's in.
Well now, if it finds a let somewhere,
it's gonna attach that variable
to whatever block it's in, so essentially,
implicitly hijacking our blocks.
Here's one example, and
this is probably the most common
reason why people use block scoping.
Anybody do for var i?
You put your little variable declaration
of i right inside the for-loop?
You ever wondered why we do that?
And I'd suggest to you, I think the reason
that became so common to us is the i value
there is something that we only
intend to use for the for-loop.
So, there's something natural about
saying, if I only intend to use it for
the for-loop, let me put it directly
on the for-loop because, stylistically,
I'm basically saying I'm not
gonna use it anywhere else.
Okay.
Now, in JavaScript we have
the ability to abuse and
reuse variables all over the place,
so we do it anyway.
But we put the var there because we're
trying to signal to ourselves and
to future developers that i is only for
the for-loop.
Okay, but a var i here,
if that had said var i on line 3, then
it would have attached to the function
because we know how variable declarations,
they attach to their function scopes.
If we do, let i,
it will make that i actually attach to
the for-loop as opposed to the function.
It will hijack the scope of the for-loop.
The same is true if we put a let inside of
an if statement, like we see on line 3.
The let baz = bar,
that's gonna attach the baz variable
to the if statement from line 2.
And that's why on line 9,
when we try to look at that variable,
it doesn't exist cuz it's
outside of its scope.
So the let keyword will hijack,
implicitly,
the scope of whatever block it appears in.
Okay?
That's basically any two pairs of
curly braces, although not entirely.
But basically any two
pairs of curly braces,
the let keyword will
just hijack that block.
Now, this is incredibly powerful cuz it
allows us to put variable declarations,
following the principle of least
disclosure, put them as close as possible
to where they're gonna be used,
as far down as is necessary.
So there isn't any possible chance that
they're conflicting with other variables,
it allows us variable-reuse in different
places of a function, and so forth.
A lot of power to the stylistic thing.
We've been doing this before, probably
some of you have code where you put your
vars inside of your ifs because
stylistically we wanted to do it.
We now have a way to enforce functionally
what we were already doing stylistically.
So there's value there, there's value
in terms of early errors if we're
accidentally referencing
variables that we shouldn't.
There's some potential performance
benefits because now these values
can be garbage collected earlier, since
they're inside of blocks that go away.
So there's lots of possible functional
benefits to go along with
the stylistic choice of block scoping.
Does that mean that we're
gonna do all block scoping?
I don't think so.
There are some notable
people on the TC39 committee
that have literally said,
let is the new var.
And they've encouraged people to
do a global find and replace, and
replace all occurrences of var with let.
In fact, anecdotally,
a few years ago I worked at Mozilla.
Mozilla's had the let keyword for
like a decade.
So I worked at Mozilla and we wrote
JavaScript code for the Firefox browser.
And the first two code commits
that I tried to get into the code
base were rejected because I
used vars instead of lets, and
they had that culture that said because we
have the let, you should always use let.
I don't agree with that and
maybe that's one of the reasons
I don't work there anymore, but
nonetheless some people think let's
the new var, you should replace them all.
I think you're gonna use both.
I think you're gonna continue
to use var declarations for
things that you want to make available
to a whole function, and lets for
things like for-loops, where you want
to put it in one specific location.